Honors Academy
The Brooklyn College Honors Academy, 2231 Boylan Hall,
serves exceptionally well-qualified, eager, imaginative
students who are flexible in their interests and open
to new discoveries and experiences. Its purpose is to
stimulate students to develop their potential and to assume
responsibility for educating themselves and, by learning
collaboratively, for educating one another. The academy
shares a suite of rooms with the Ethyle R. Wolfe Institute
for the Humanities. The Honors Academy brings together
in one location distinctive, separately directed honors
programs: the William E. Macaulay Honors College, the City
University of New York intercollege honors program; the
Scholars Program, a four-year program in interdisciplinary
honors studies; the Coordinated B.A.-M.D. Program, a fouryear
program for students guaranteed entrance to the State
University of New York Downstate College of Medicine;
the Coordinated Engineering Honors Program, a two-year
engineering curriculum leading to transfer to engineering
studies elsewhere; the Mellon Mays Undergraduate
Fellowship, a two-year upper-division program for students
from underrepresented groups considering scholarly study in
the humanities and other fields; and the Maximizing Access
to Research Careers (MARC) program in the sciences for
minority students.
The academy provides a coherent curriculum relevant to
the needs of more than 600 students. It offers access to
faculty members through smaller classes, closely monitored
apprenticeships and working relationships with successful
local professionals; a student commons room; a collaborative
community of students similarly interested, ambitious and
talented; computer facilities and room to work and study
together; access to the scholarly and cultural resources
of New York City; tutoring experience; and programmatic
guidance ensuring that students follow academic paths
appropriate to their interests and talents.
The Honors Academy curriculum that is open to all members
of the Honors Academy includes honors sections of English
1010 and 1012 and of Classics 1110, Philosophy 2101, History
3005 and CORC 3101 through 3111; an interdisciplinary
sophomore seminar (priority registration is given to members
of the Scholars Program); Honors Academy Research
Colloquium seminars; and the senior colloquium for senior
thesis support (priority registration is given to members of
the Scholars Program). Additionally, a colloquium is offered
for students in the Coordinated B.A.-M.D. Program, and four
interdisciplinary seminars are offered for students in the
William E. Macaulay Honors College.
Application forms may be obtained in the Honors Academy
office and in the Admissions Information Center. Admission
criteria for the four-year programs may be found in the
"Special Programs" section of the "Admission" chapter in this
Bulletin. For information on scholarships, see the chapter
"Scholarships, Awards and Prizes."

The mission of the William E. Macaulay Honors College is
to meet the needs of an exceptional group of the most able
and highly achieving students in the City University of New
York. Membership in the Honors College earns a student the
designation University Scholar. Brooklyn College provides
University Scholars with a specially created common suite
of interdisciplinary courses designed to stimulate interest in
and deepen understanding of the institutions and people of
New York City. They pursue majors in a variety of fields and
are provided with funded opportunities for internship and
research. In addition, the Honors College arranges events
at artistic, cultural and scientific venues of New York City.
Distinguished faculty visit with students at both formal and
informal events.
University Scholars receive substantial financial and academic
support during their four years as undergraduates. All tuition
is paid by grants. A generous study grant funds opportunities
for study abroad and internships. Students are given a
Cultural Passport that provides them with free or sharply
discounted tickets to more than 100 artistic and cultural
institutions in New York City. They are also provided with
state-of-the-art laptop computers to facilitate research and
communication.
As first-year students and sophomores in the Honors College,
University Scholars take an Honors College seminar each
semester and the balance of their course load in Pathways
courses and major requirements.
Honors College seminars are taught at Brooklyn College
by outstanding faculty. In addition to the Honors College
seminars, students in the Honors College complete a
minimum of 12 credits of honors courses at or above the
3000 level, not including general education courses. In
addition, University Scholars take honors in their majors
when offered and complete a senior thesis.